---
title: "What framework in 2019?"
date: '2018-12-24'
author: 'Pierrick Le Roy'
---

So, you know JavaScript. And you know React. You’re off to the races, building your amazing React app and changing the world.

Over time, your app gets more complex, with more components, and more data going in and out of it. Now you’re running into issues — and managing multiple simultaneous processes is turning into a headache. How do you keep it all in line?

The answer is Redux.

Understanding Redux, our latest interactive course on Educative.io, is created by front-end expert Ohans Emmanuel. This course shows you how to implement this popular state management library into your app and make your life much easier.


## Redux: a quick primer.

Redux is a lightweight state management tool for JavaScript apps, released in 2015 and created by Dan Abramov and Andrew Clark.

Redux is the most popular state management solution. It helps you write apps that behave in the same way, are easy to test, and can run the same in different environments (client, server, native).

According to its official documentation, Redux was founded on three core principles:

1. The state of your whole application is stored in an object tree within a single store.
2. Ensure application state is read-only and require changes to be made by emitting a descriptive action.
3. To specify how the state tree is transformed by actions, you write pure reducers.
(More on “reducers” in a bit…)

With the entire state of your application centralized in one location, each component has direct access to the state (at least without sending props to child components, or callback functions to parent components).

And the more complex your app is, the more valuable Redux is. As you add more features, your app scales horizontally instead of vertically (or in other words, code is added in addition to your existing code, instead of on top of it). This keeps your code relatively clean and simple.


## Complex apps need state management.

State management is an important part of application development, especially when client and server data needs to be an entity you can actually maintain.

If your app is more complex or deals with lots of data, using Redux to manage your app’s state will help solve issues that come up with more complex apps.

Naturally, using an external solution for state management means being familiar with a few rules in the development process. Redux introduces actions, reducers, and stores:

Action: static information about the event that initiates a state change. When you update your state with Redux, you always start with an action.
Reducer: a pure function that takes care of inputting changes to its state. It will always return a new application state. As your app grows, your single reducer will be split off into smaller reducers that manage certain parts of the state tree.
Store: the application state stored as objects. Whenever the store is updated, it will update the React components subscribed to it.
These concepts are used to create a simple state management architecture.


## Redux makes React better.

Our new course Understanding Redux was designed for the React user. Although Redux is used with other JavaScript libraries like Angular or Vue.js, it’s most commonly used for React projects.

With a set of configuring data, React can easily change the visible DOM from one state to another. Redux takes it a step further by being a predictable state container so you can easily maintain and tweak the state. Paired with React, Redux allows you to glance at your app’s data and views, make a simple change to any of your data, and get a good idea of how your views will update.


## Learn Redux by doing Redux.

Redux has a pretty big learning curve, at least initially. It’s a bit more tough to pick it up on your own.

Understanding Redux is designed to give you a primer on the basics of Redux. It’s an interactive course, with plenty of coding challenges to make learning Redux not just easier, but more fun.

Practice refactoring apps using Redux, with example apps.

With Understanding Redux, you’re not just reading the theory. You’re putting your React skills directly to work by refactoring simple apps inside your web browser.



